---
title: Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting 2024
author: pratiksha
date: 2025-02-09 20:00:00 -0500
categories: [Blogs] 
---


Attending the 73rd Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings alongside nearly 40 Nobel Laureates and 650 young scientists from around the globe was truly a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. 
It felt like the big bang that ignited a new chapter in my scientific journey.

As a kid, I dreamed of becoming a scientist, watching space shuttle launches on TV. When asked what I wanted to be, my answer was always "a scientist." 
The path was anything but straightforward - from not knowing what the IIT was, to accidentally landing in Chemistry (at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur) 
while aspiring for engineering, to eventually choosing Quantum Chemistry as my field & imagining the universe at the electronic level. Holding onto my Chemistry background, 
the dream of attending LINO24, a meeting dedicated to Physics, & receiving my first formal invitation as a Young Scientist became a reality—a story made possible by the convergence of multiple factors.

Standing among a community of young scientists driven by their passion for science, was a truly inspiring experience. Seeing Nobel Laureates, who have dedicated decades 
of their lives to scientific inquiry, remain humble despite their incredible achievements, was both overwhelming and humbling. I'm deeply grateful to all the bright minds for their enthusiasm and insights.

Every moment of the meeting—from the elegant scientific atmosphere to the conversations with Laureates, regardless of our differing backgrounds—was invaluable. 
Whether it was sharing research with fellow scientists, discussing the challenges of academic life, walking along the lakeside in Lindau to explore science trails, 
or standing on the Nobel Laureates' pier during sunset while the names of Laureates engraved on the pier captivated me despite the chilly winds, the experience was filled with countless memories that one post cannot fully capture.

The highlight was being selected for the BW post-conference program, where I was among 18 students to visit various institutes in the BW state for a week. 
Thanks, Baden-Württemberg International (BW_i), for an amazing week of research exploration in THE LÄND.

This incredible experience wouldn't have been possible without the support of many well-wishers.

I'm immensely grateful to Texas A&M University for generously sponsoring my participation in LINO24 and the BW Program.

A heartfelt thanks to my PhD advisor, Dr. Ramon Miranda Quintana, University of Florida for consistently supporting my participation in events that contribute to my professional growth. 

I'm also fortunate to have Dr. Rodney Bartlett, who eagerly supported me with recommendation letters & celebrated my selection for LINO24.

Last but not least, thanks to Sourabh Shubham, whose enthusiasm for science & constant support has motivated me to push my boundaries. Without whose insights, 
it would've been hard to believe that I could navigate the 2-stage screening & be one of the young scientists selected for this incredible opportunity.
